How does a father feel when he receives an unexpected gift from his child?
Of course, his heart is warmed.
Why?
Because he sees this as an expression of the child's love for him.
Well, in a similar way, our loving Heavenly Father, Jehovah, does not want to force us
to serve him.
He's interested in our motives, and he wants us to serve him out of love.
Why?
Because Jehovah realizes that love has power.
He gives us the power to make changes in our life, and also it helps us to be able to
overcome temptations and opposition.
But that presents a challenge for us when we conduct the Bible studies.
How so?
Well, how can we develop within the hearts of the Bible students a love for Jehovah without
forcing them or trying to put pressure on them?
Well, that's something that we need to think about.
During these talks, we've certainly enjoyed the series of videos, haven't we, that have
helped us to see how Jade has made progress with her Bible study and how Nita has helped
her all along?
When we think about this, we see that Jade has made good progress, and she's up to
a point now where she has a love for Jehovah.
In this final video, let's watch how Jade faces a very difficult problem, and we'll see
how her love for Jehovah helps us to overcome this problem.
But Mum, listen.
No, Jade. You listen.
It's just another of your faders. It's time to move on love.
All the days are our time. It's all I get from you.
Promise me you'll be here.
I really don't want to disappoint her, but I can't disappoint Jehovah, of course.
You love them both.
Don't you think you can help you? Talk to him.
I spent a long time pouring out my heart to him, and I remembered something from one of the
Psalms. I will walk in your truth, unify my heart to fear your name.
Remember someone once claiming to be all about the promises?
Made any good ones lately?
Absolutely.
Well, that certainly was a difficult problem, wasn't it?
Her mother wanting to force her to join her in a worldly holiday.
But what helped Jade? As she said, it's true she loves her mother,
but she didn't want to disappoint Jehovah.
And not as neither didn't try to go through all the pros and cons with her.
She realized that Jade had a love for Jehovah, and she just simply said,
ask him for help, and Jehovah did help her.
So how can we make sure that our Bible students come to a similar point in their life where they
love Jehovah?
Well, we find some help with regard to that question.
If we turn to the first book of John, so please turn with me to first John, chapter 4,
and we're going to read verse 8, whoever does not love has not come to know God
because God is love.
What is this telling us?
You see, basically it is saying if our Bible student doesn't love God,
that's because they haven't really come to know God yet.
And if we turn the page to verse 19, there's a secondary point that's mentioned.
It says, we love because he first loved us.
What does this highlight?
Well, for our Bible student to love Jehovah, they need to come to know him, but also,
they need to see his love in their lives.
So that puts a responsibility on us to help them to identify Jehovah's love,
and then have this love for Jehovah building their hearts.
We can do that by asking questions such as, how have you seen Jehovah's love in your life?
Well, what does this Bible account?
Teachers about Jehovah's love.
In other words, although we are interested in explaining what Jehovah has done
by highlighting what he does, how he does it, and when he does it,
we would never want to forget the vital question, why does he do something?
The answer is because of his love, and we hope our Bible student to see that.
You see, Jehovah's power enables him to do things. His wisdom helps him and guides him along with
justice to do things the right way. But what is it that motivates Jehovah? It's his love, isn't it?
And asking the question, why Jehovah does things helps to highlight that point?
So as we're teaching our Bible students, we need them to see that Jehovah really does love them,
and he wants them to succeed in their life. Also, we could perhaps share with them some of the
times that we personally have experienced Jehovah's love, perhaps in the way that Jehovah has answered
our prayers. But in connection with this, there's another scripture that can help us.
If you turn with me, please, to the book of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 48, and we're going to look at
verses 17 and 18. Isaiah 48, 17 and 18. This is what Jehovah says, your repurchaser, the holy one of
Israel. I, Jehovah, am your God, the one teaching you to benefit yourself, the one guiding you in the
way you should walk. If only you would pay attention to my commandments, then your peace would become
just like a river and your righteousness like the waves of the sea. Do you see the point that's
being made here? We need to help the Bible student to understand that Jehovah really wants the best
for them, and he's helping and guiding them in the way that they should go. And the end result,
we notice there in verse 18, is that peace and righteousness will be their reward.
Well, this truly is something that can help the Bible student. In fact, when they start to face the
changes that they need to make in life, if they have this love for Jehovah, they won't just view it
as something they have to do in order to attain everlasting life. No, they'll view these things as
opportunities for them to prove their love of Jehovah. Well, what is this symposium, Sean?
As we've listened to the various talks and watched the videos, it's helped us to see various ways
that we can help our Bible students to make progress. We realize that conducting a Bible study and
helping someone to become a disciple is not just a matter of reading certain paragraphs in a book
or using certain techniques. A lot more is involved. What else? Well, remember the apostle Paul was
an experienced disciple maker. And let's turn our Bibles to the first book of Thessalonians.
And we'll notice here under inspiration, the apostle Paul tells us what else is involved.
First, Thessalonians chapter 2, and we're going to read verses 7 and 8.
On the contrary, we became gentle in your midst as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own
children. So having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good
news of God, but also our very selves because you became so beloved to us. Yes, we really need to
care for these ones. We need to nurture them, help them with the problems and obstacles they face
along the way. And yes, we need to become their friends. Well, becoming a disciple maker is a
challenging work. There's a lot involved with it, but don't feel overwhelmed. You can do it
with Jehovah's help and the help of Jesus Christ. Remember when Jesus gave us a commission to go and
make disciples, what else did He say? Look, I am with you. Yes, with Jehovah's help and with the
help of Jesus, we can experience a wonderful joy. What is that joy? The joy of seeing a new
disciple learned to love Jehovah.